---
layout: post
title: "Why I Run"
categories:
  - Running
tags:
  - CCC
  - Trail running
  - Marin
---

If you would have told me three - hell, even two - years ago that, today, I'd be sitting on a flight to Europe, four days out from running a 100-kilometer race through the Alps...

Well, I'd likely crack a wry smile, lean back, and say "...okay then."

-----

My entire life is pockmarked with a handful of sport-related stuff. As a kid growing up in South Dakota, nothing passed the time quite like baseball practice, soccer practice, basketball practice, football practice, bowling practice, rock climbing, cliff jumping, skiing...I suppose there wasn't much else to do, and as any cold-weather state kid will tell you, spending more than an hour outdoors is a risky proposition for about six months each year. You make do with the time you have.  

You'll notice that I didn't include *running* in that list. So, you know those friends of yours who say "I'll only run if chasing a ball"? Essentially, that sums up my attitude toward running as a kid. What's funny is that it was the first thing in which I showed actual interest and potential - I ran three miles per day around my elementary school as a third-grader, but never really concluded that it was worth more than a few minutes of effort each week. Plus, I was too busy transitioning into the world of defending my honor against the barrage of teasing that most nerdy, cocky kids start to endure around that age. Being active wasn't something that anyone really endorsed; it just became a way of being. So, when I faced the biggest test of my young life, how embedded they *truly* were would be tested.

Three days after my 13th birthday, the doctor who had snipped a lymph node from my neck a week prior shared the news with me and my parents: 
